
In simpler terms BOLA (Broken object level authorisation)refers to the API version of IDOR(Insecure direct object reference).

BOLA( OWASP api security top 10, #1 risk).

Here BOLA refers to the scenario where, API provides access to data objects based on users role. But fails to verify that the user is authorised to access the data object or not.

it is pretty much same as IDOR but in terms of api it is BOLA.

#### Scenario 1:

Here is a url of a banking application of an authenticated user:
http://bank.com/user_id=1234

if the web app is vulnerable to BOLA we can simply change the reference value,
for example,
http://bank.com/user_id=1235

here the user can view sensitive information of another user. 

Here the web app is not validating whether the user who requested the information if user_id=1235, it is just giving back the requested resource.

some times these might not be a number it can be any object like for example a document.

sometimes these user id might be a big complex unguessable or immune against brute-force.That is the time when we should check for ways to harvest these reference number from by just interacting with the application. 

#### Scenario 2: 

Suppose there is an application where user id is like: `12t36_8d34ndu93_ns3nm` which is defect-less, 

but when inspecting the application we discovered an endpoint where users can leave comments, 

when we inspected the api in the comment section using proxy, we found that, the api is returning a lot of information where the user id of the author of the comment is visible among other information.

this vulnerability could be utilised to construct a BOLA.

#### Scenario 3:

An e-commerce platform for online stores (shops) provides a listing page with the revenue charts for their hosted shops. Inspecting the browser requests, an attacker can identify the API endpoints used as a data source for those charts and their pattern: `/shops/{shopName}/revenue_data.json`. 

Using another API endpoint, the attacker can get the list of all hosted shop names. With a simple script to manipulate the names in the list, replacing `{shopName}` in the URL, the attacker gains access to the sales data of thousands of e-commerce stores.

#### Scenario 4:

An automobile manufacturer has enabled remote control of its vehicles via a mobile API for communication with the driver's mobile phone. The API enables the driver to remotely start and stop the engine and lock and unlock the doors. 

As part of this flow, the user sends the Vehicle Identification Number (VIN) to the API. The API fails to validate that the VIN represents a vehicle that belongs to the logged in user, which leads to a BOLA vulnerability. An attacker can access vehicles that don't belong to him.

#### Scenario 5:

An online document storage service allows users to view, edit, store and delete their documents. When a user's document is deleted, a GraphQL mutation with the document ID is sent to the API.

```
POST /graphql
{
  "operationName":"deleteReports",
  "variables":{
    "reportKeys":["<DOCUMENT_ID>"]
  },
  "query":"mutation deleteReports($siteId: ID!, $reportKeys: [String]!) {
    {
      deleteReports(reportKeys: $reportKeys)
    }
  }"
}
```

Since the document with the given ID is deleted without any further permission checks, a user may be able to delete another user's document.

### How To Prevent

- Implement a proper authorization mechanism that relies on the user policies and hierarchy.
- Use the authorisation mechanism to check if the logged-in user has access to perform the requested action on the record in every function that uses an input from the client to access a record in the database.
- Prefer the use of random and unpredictable values as GUIDs for records' IDs.
- Write tests to evaluate the vulnerability of the authorisation mechanism. Do not deploy changes that make the tests fail.