This vulnerability occurs when a user without validated access permissions exploits the endpoint by reading and/or modifying the value of objects. The ability to update object elements allows for mass assignment, which is an input and authorisation validation flaw that allows attackers to manipulate client-provided data for advanced exploits. 

The difference between this vulnerability and Broken Object Level Authorisation (BOLA) (number 1 on the list) is that BOLA refers to authorisation to access a whole object, Broken Object Property Level Authorization goes one level deeper – and refers to authorization to access a property within an object.

Unauthorised access to private/sensitive object properties may result in data disclosure, data loss, or data corruption. Under certain circumstances, unauthorised access to object properties can lead to privilege escalation or partial/full account takeover.

When allowing a user to access an object using an API endpoint, it is important to validate that the user has access to the specific object properties they are trying to access.

An API endpoint is vulnerable if:

- The API endpoint exposes properties of an object that are considered sensitive and should not be read by the user. (previously named: "[Excessive Data Exposure](https://owasp.org/API-Security/editions/2019/en/0xa3-excessive-data-exposure/)")
- The API endpoint allows a user to change, add/or delete the value of a sensitive object's property which the user should not be able to access (previously named: "[Mass Assignment](https://owasp.org/API-Security/editions/2019/en/0xa6-mass-assignment/)")

## Example Attack Scenarios

### Scenario #1

A dating app allows a user to report other users for inappropriate behaviour. As part of this flow, the user clicks on a "report" button, and the following API call is triggered:

```
POST /graphql
{
  "operationName":"reportUser",
  "variables":{
    "userId": 313,
    "reason":["offensive behavior"]
  },
  "query":"mutation reportUser($userId: ID!, $reason: String!) {
    reportUser(userId: $userId, reason: $reason) {
      status
      message
      reportedUser {
        id
        fullName
        recentLocation
      }
    }
  }"
}
```

The API Endpoint is vulnerable since it allows the authenticated user to have access to sensitive (reported) user object properties, such as "fullName" and "recentLocation" that are not supposed to be accessed by other users.

### Scenario #2

An online marketplace platform, that offers one type of users ("hosts") to rent out their apartment to another type of users ("guests"), requires the host to accept a booking made by a guest, before charging the guest for the stay.

As part of this flow, an API call is sent by the host to `POST /api/host/approve_booking` with the following legitimate payload:

```
{
  "approved": true,
  "comment": "Check-in is after 3pm"
}
```

The host replays the legitimate request, and adds the following malicious payload:

```
{
  "approved": true,
  "comment": "Check-in is after 3pm",
  "total_stay_price": "$1,000,000"
}
```

The API endpoint is vulnerable because there is no validation that the host should have access to the internal object property - `total_stay_price`, and the guest will be charged more than she was supposed to be.

### Scenario #3

A social network that is based on short videos, enforces restrictive content filtering and censorship. Even if an uploaded video is blocked, the user can change the description of the video using the following API request:

```
PUT /api/video/update_video

{
  "description": "a funny video about cats"
}
```

A frustrated user can replay the legitimate request, and add the following malicious payload:

```
{
  "description": "a funny video about cats",
  "blocked": false
}
```

The API endpoint is vulnerable because there is no validation if the user should have access to the internal object property - `blocked`, and the user can change the value from `true` to `false` and unlock their own blocked content.


## How To Prevent

- When exposing an object using an API endpoint, always make sure that the user should have access to the object's properties you expose.
- Avoid using generic methods such as `to_json()` and `to_string()`. Instead, cherry-pick specific object properties you specifically want to return.
- If possible, avoid using functions that automatically bind a client's input into code variables, internal objects, or object properties ("Mass Assignment").
- Allow changes only to the object's properties that should be updated by the client.
- Implement a schema-based response validation mechanism as an extra layer of security. As part of this mechanism, define and enforce data returned by all API methods.
- Keep returned data structures to the bare minimum, according to the business/functional requirements for the endpoint.