
- Unrestricted resource consumption, also known as resource exhaustion, is a type of denial-of-service (DoS) attack that aims to exhaust the resources of a target system or application.

- This attack can be carried out by sending a large number of requests to the target system or by sending requests that require a significant amount of processing or memory resources.

- Unrestricted resource consumption can result in the target system becoming unavailable or unstable, which can have serious consequences for the business or organisation that relies on the system.

## How to Exploit Unrestricted Resource Consumption in API3?

Unrestricted resource consumption can be exploited in several ways, including:

- Sending a large number of requests to the API, which can cause the API server to become overloaded and unresponsive.

- Sending requests that require a significant amount of processing or memory resources, such as complex queries or large payloads.

- Sending requests that cause the API server to perform expensive operations, such as database queries or cryptographic operations.

## Prevention Strategies for Unrestricted Resource Consumption :

To prevent unrestricted resource consumption attacks in API3, organisations can implement several strategies, including:

- Rate limiting: Implementing rate limiting can help prevent attackers from overwhelming the API server with too many requests. Organisations can configure rate limits based on the number of requests per user, IP address, or API endpoint.

- Input validation: Implementing input validation can help prevent attackers from sending requests that require a significant amount of processing or memory resources. Organisations can validate input data, such as query parameters and request payloads, to ensure that they conform to expected formats and sizes.

- Load balancing: Implementing load balancing can help distribute requests evenly across multiple API servers, reducing the risk of overload or resource exhaustion on any one server.

- Server-side caching: Implementing server-side caching can help reduce the load on the API server by storing frequently requested data in memory or on disk.

- Monitoring and logging: Implementing monitoring and logging can help organisations detect and respond to unrestricted resource consumption attacks quickly. Organisations can monitor API traffic and server resource utilisation, as well as log requests and responses for analysis.

## Conclusion:

- Unrestricted resource consumption is a serious security risk that can affect the availability and performance of APIs.

- By implementing prevention strategies, such as rate limiting, input validation, load balancing, server-side caching, and monitoring and logging, organisations can mitigate the risk of unrestricted resource consumption attacks and ensure the security and availability of their APIs.

### Scenario #1

A social network implemented a “forgot password” flow using SMS verification, enabling the user to receive a one time token via SMS in order to reset their password.

Once a user clicks on "forgot password" an API call is sent from the user's browser to the back-end API:

```
POST /initiate_forgot_password

{
  "step": 1,
  "user_number": "6501113434"
}
```

Then, behind the scenes, an API call is sent from the back-end to a 3rd party API that takes care of the SMS delivering:

```
POST /sms/send_reset_pass_code

Host: willyo.net

{
  "phone_number": "6501113434"
}
```

The 3rd party provider, Willyo, charges $0.05 per this type of call.

An attacker writes a script that sends the first API call tens of thousands of times. The back-end follows and requests Willyo to send tens of thousands of text messages, leading the company to lose thousands of dollars in a matter of minutes.

### Scenario #2

A GraphQL API Endpoint allows the user to upload a profile picture.

```
POST /graphql

{
  "query": "mutation {
    uploadPic(name: \"pic1\", base64_pic: \"R0FOIEFOR0xJVA…\") {
      url
    }
  }"
}
```

Once the upload is complete, the API generates multiple thumbnails with different sizes based on the uploaded picture. This graphical operation takes a lot of memory from the server.

The API implements a traditional rate limiting protection - a user can't access the GraphQL endpoint too many times in a short period of time. The API also checks for the uploaded picture's size before generating thumbnails to avoid processing pictures that are too large.

An attacker can easily bypass those mechanisms, by leveraging the flexible nature of GraphQL:

```
POST /graphql

[
  {"query": "mutation {uploadPic(name: \"pic1\", base64_pic: \"R0FOIEFOR0xJVA…\") {url}}"},
  {"query": "mutation {uploadPic(name: \"pic2\", base64_pic: \"R0FOIEFOR0xJVA…\") {url}}"},
  ...
  {"query": "mutation {uploadPic(name: \"pic999\", base64_pic: \"R0FOIEFOR0xJVA…\") {url}}"},
}
```

Because the API does not limit the number of times the `uploadPic` operation can be attempted, the call will lead to exhaustion of server memory and Denial of Service.

### Scenario #3

A service provider allows clients to download arbitrarily large files using its API. These files are stored in cloud object storage and they don't change that often. The service provider relies on a cache service to have a better service rate and to keep bandwidth consumption low. The cache service only caches files up to 15GB.

When one of the files gets updated, its size increases to 18GB. All service clients immediately start pulling the new version. Because there were no consumption cost alerts, nor a maximum cost allowance for the cloud service, the next monthly bill increases from US$13, on average, to US$8k.