
Attackers probe the business logic behind APIs to find sensitive flows, then automate calls to exploit the weakness. Without placing limits on the number of calls allowed to sensitive business flows or authorisation rules to stop users from using too many resources within a short period, attacks are difficult to detect. Each individual request may be a legitimate request, allowed by the system. It’s only when requests are placed at volume that the trouble begins. As such, it can be difficult to detect without looking at API requests as a whole.

Unrestricted access to sensitive business flows can lead to:

- Automation exhausting system resources, impacting performance
- Overload of API infrastructure with requests leading to denial of service (DoS)
- System exploitation, allowing unintended actions
- Unauthorised access to sensitive data or user accounts


### Scenario #1

A technology company announces they are going to release a new gaming console on Thanksgiving. The product has a very high demand and the stock is limited. An attacker writes code to automatically buy the new product and complete the transaction.

On the release day, the attacker runs the code distributed across different IP addresses and locations. The API doesn't implement the appropriate protection and allows the attacker to buy the majority of the stock before other legitimate users.

Later on, the attacker sells the product on another platform for a much higher price.

### Scenario #2

An airline company offers online ticket purchasing with no cancellation fee. A user with malicious intentions books 90% of the seats of a desired flight.

A few days before the flight the malicious user canceled all the tickets at once, which forced the airline to discount the ticket prices in order to fill the flight.

At this point, the user buys herself a single ticket that is much cheaper than the original one.

### Scenario #3

A ride-sharing app provides a referral program - users can invite their friends and gain credit for each friend who has joined the app. This credit can be later used as cash to book rides.

An attacker exploits this flow by writing a script to automate the registration process, with each new user adding credit to the attacker's wallet.

The attacker can later enjoy free rides or sell the accounts with excessive credits for cash.

## How To Prevent

The mitigation planning should be done in two layers:

- Business - identify the business flows that might harm the business if they are excessively used.
- Engineering - choose the right protection mechanisms to mitigate the business risk.

Some of the protection mechanisms are more simple while others are more difficult to implement. The following methods are used to slow down automated threats:

- Device fingerprinting: denying service to unexpected client devices (e.g headless browsers) tends to make threat actors use more sophisticated solutions, thus more costly for them
- Human detection: using either captcha or more advanced biometric solutions (e.g. typing patterns)
- Non-human patterns: analyse the user flow to detect non-human patterns (e.g. the user accessed the "add to cart" and "complete purchase" functions in less than one second)
- Consider blocking IP addresses of Tor exit nodes and well-known proxies

Secure and limit access to APIs that are consumed directly by machines (such as developer and B2B APIs). They tend to be an easy target for attackers because they often don't implement all the required protection mechanisms.
