This is just similar to ordinary web vulnerability the only difference is that, the API is fetching contents here.


### Scenario #1

A social network allows users to upload profile pictures. The user can choose either to upload the image file from their machine, or provide the URL of the image. Choosing the second, will trigger the following API call:

```
POST /api/profile/upload_picture

{
  "picture_url": "http://example.com/profile_pic.jpg"
}
```

An attacker can send a malicious URL and initiate port scanning within the internal network using the API Endpoint.

```
{
  "picture_url": "localhost:8080"
}
```

Based on the response time, the attacker can figure out whether the port is open or not.

### Scenario #2

A security product generates events when it detects anomalies in the network. Some teams prefer to review the events in a broader, more generic monitoring system, such as a SIEM (Security Information and Event Management). For this purpose, the product provides integration with other systems using webhooks.

As part of a creation of a new webhook, a GraphQL mutation is sent with the URL of the SIEM API.

```
POST /graphql

[
  {
    "variables": {},
    "query": "mutation {
      createNotificationChannel(input: {
        channelName: \"ch_piney\",
        notificationChannelConfig: {
          customWebhookChannelConfigs: [
            {
              url: \"http://www.siem-system.com/create_new_event\",
              send_test_req: true
            }
          ]
          }
      }){
        channelId
    }
    }"
  }
]

```

During the creation process, the API back-end sends a test request to the provided webhook URL, and presents to the user the response.

An attacker can leverage this flow, and make the API request a sensitive resource, such as an internal cloud metadata service that exposes credentials:

```
POST /graphql

[
  {
    "variables": {},
    "query": "mutation {
      createNotificationChannel(input: {
        channelName: \"ch_piney\",
        notificationChannelConfig: {
          customWebhookChannelConfigs: [
            {
              url: \"http://169.254.169.254/latest/meta-data/iam/security-credentials/ec2-default-ssm\",
              send_test_req: true
            }
          ]
        }
      }) {
        channelId
      }
    }
  }
]
```

Since the application shows the response from the test request, the attacker can view the credentials of the cloud environment.

## How To Prevent

- Isolate the resource fetching mechanism in your network: usually these features are aimed to retrieve remote resources and not internal ones.
- Whenever possible, use allow lists of:
- Remote origins users are expected to download resources from (e.g. Google Drive, Gravatar, etc.)
- URL schemes and ports
- Accepted media types for a given functionality
- Disable HTTP redirections.
- Use a well-tested and maintained URL parser to avoid issues caused by URL parsing inconsistencies.
- Validate and sanitize all client-supplied input data.
- Do not send raw responses to clients.