
Simply we can tell api is a set of rules which helps applications to communicate each other. 
It stands as an intermediary layer which helps in data transfers between systems.

#### How an API works

An excellent example for this will be the payment option, we may have  saw in some web app, at the payment section an option to pay with UPI or pay  with PayPal.

These  function relies on API to make it possible. let's look at a scenario where a payment api works:

`scenario:`

An  user making a subscription request using google pay.


`Procedure step by step:`

- The application will give an interface to provide information of the user, example google pay number, amount etc.

- The web app may validate the user input.

- web app will send the payment request to the backend server which includes the payable amount and other details.

- The backend server will communicate with  google pay's API  provided by google pay for to make transactions which may include payment request payload containing details like UPI ID, amount, merchant details, etc.

- Now google pay's api will process the request and validate the information 

- The API will prompt the user for authentication for example pin number.

- Once authentication is completed API will check for funds and authorise the transaction

- If the transaction is completed accordingly the API will send the response to the backend server which includes the transaction details.

- The back end web server will send response of the transaction to the front end. which will be displayed to the user.

So here we can see that the API facilitates the transaction, where google pay is an external party whose service the web app utilise.

If we look close enough through corporates or enterprises we can see that many cloud applications are disconnected from each other, here an internal API may help as it will connect throughout the enterprise.


### Types of APIs

Today most APIs are web APIs that expose an application's data and functionality over the internet. Here are the four main types of web API:

- **Open APIs** are open-source application programming interfaces you can access with the HTTP protocol. Also known as public APIs, they have defined API endpoints and request and response formats.  


- **Partner APIs** connect strategic business partners. for example connects company A  with company B.


- **Internal APIs** remain hidden from external users. These private APIs aren't available for users outside of the company and are instead intended to improve productivity and communication across different internal development teams.  


- **Composite APIs** combine multiple data or service APIs. They allow programmers to access several endpoints in a single call. Composite APIs are useful in micro-services architecture where performing a single task may require information from several sources.

### APIs  common examples

##### Universal logins

A popular API example is the function that enables people to log in to websites by using their Facebook, Twitter, or Google profile login details. This convenient feature allows any website to leverage an API from one of the more popular services for quick authentication, saving them the time and hassle of setting up a new profile for every web application or new membership.

##### Internet of Things (IoT)

These “smart devices” offer added functionality, such as internet-enabled touchscreens and data collection, through APIs. For example, a smart fridge can connect to recipe applications or take and send notes to mobile phones via text message. Internal cameras connect to various applications so that users can see the contents of the refrigerator from anywhere.

##### Travel booking comparisons

Travel booking sites aggregate thousands of flights, showcasing the cheapest options for every date and destination. This service is made possible through APIs that provide application users with access to the latest information about availability from hotels and airlines, either via a web browser or the travel booking company’s own application. With an autonomous exchange of data and requests, APIs dramatically reduce the time and effort involved in checking for available flights or accommodation.

##### Mapping apps

In addition to the core APIs that display static or interactive maps, these apps use other APIs and features to provide users with directions, speed limits, points of interest, traffic warnings and more.users communicate with an API when plotting travel routes or tracking items on the move, such as a delivery vehicle.

##### Twitter

Each Tweet contains descriptive core attributes, including an author, a unique ID, a message, a timestamp when it was posted, and geolocation metadata. Twitter makes the core attributes of public Tweets and replies available to developers and allows them to post Tweets on other webpages via the company's API.

##### SaaS applications

APIs are an integral part of the growth in software-as-a-service (SaaS) products. Platforms like CRMs (customer relationship management tools) often include a number of built-in APIs that let companies integrate with applications they already use, such as messaging, social media, and email apps. This drastically reduces time spent switching between applications for sales and marketing tasks. It also helps reduce or prevent data silos that may exists between departments using different applications.

### API protocols


As the use of API increased it is essential that certain protocols have been developed to provide a standard information exchange, ie is setting up rules for syntax, data types, commands etc.

**SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)**
 This one is built with XML, SOAP enable web apps or software components  to share information  which runs on different environments or written in different languages.SOAP enables endpoints to send and receive data through SMTP and HTTP

**XML-RPC (XML-Remote Procedure Call)**
 This  protocol relies on a specific XML format to transfer data. XML-RPC is older than SOAP, but much simpler, and relatively lightweight in that it uses minimum bandwidth.

**JSON-RPC** 
 Like XML-RPC, JSON-RPC is a remote procedure call, but JSON (JavaScript Object Notation) is used instead of XML to transfer the data.

**REST (Representational State Transfer)**
 REST is a set of web API architecture principles. REST APIs also known as a RESTful API —are APIs that follow to certain REST architectural constraints. It’s possible to build RESTful APIs with SOAP protocols, but the two standards are usually viewed as competing specifications.


## GraphQL Api  vs Rest Api

Well first of all, 
- Rest and GraphQL are used to build APIs.

- So Rest is an architectural style that relies on http requests to interact with the resources

- GraphQL is a query language that allow clients to retrieve data from multiple data sources in a single api call

- Rest api is like a talkative person, it always give information more than you need whether it's necessary or not. 

- On the other hand, GraphQL(Graph query language) Api is more like a reserved person, it will only give the information you ask and you should be specific.

##### GraphQL


These fundamental components together makes GraphQL possible.

**Schema**
 GraphQL have something called schema, which is a blueprint that defines all the possible data that client can query through a service.

**Query**
 Query is a request for data that follows the structure defined in the schema.

**Resolver**
 The resolver is called to retrieve the data requested in the query. This may involve fetching data from multiple resources and assembling it into a response that matches the query structure.


**Mutations**
 Mutations modify the data on the server. We can think of it like the CRUD model ( create ,  read , update , delete) here query will be equivalent to read and all the others, like create, update, delete they all are handled by mutations



## Rest API

This component makes REST  possible.

**Resources**

 - Each resource has a unique identifier which is called as a URI (uniform resource identifier). 

 - A client can request for responses using get, post, put , delete etc which is basically http methods. 

 - And the server will respond with representation of resource in xml, Json etc.

 - A client can filter the data using query parameters.

## Commonalities

- Both uses Frameworks and libraries, so we don't need to worry about handling network   stuff and all.
- Both operates over http
- Both can handle requests and  responses using JSON


## Conclusion

Rest and GraphQL are amazing building blocks for APIs. If we are to chose from them i would say that the scenario matters. 

Cause the Rest APIs are really good when we have only to perform simple tasks like CRUD operations, for example on an e-commerce website to add items to cart, delete it and so on rest api will be better.

But when it comes to complexity GraphQL will be helpful, imagine there is a scenario where a web app need to fetch resources from different data sets, GraphQL will be an advantage as GraphQL is suitable for such actions.

There is not restrictions to use only one API for a web app we can use both. even we can add GraphQL to the existing rest api on an application.



